Slice 4 — Map Page (Web Portals) + Shared Map Workspace
Objective

Implement the Map page for the new web portals (Contractor, HOA Admin / HOA Member, Property Manager) using the existing Leaflet map infrastructure, while preserving the admin portal design system and visual styling.

This slice should establish the shared web map workspace for the full VRTSync platform.

The map is not just a reference page. It is a core operating page of the platform.

Critical Design Rule

All new map page UI must visually match the existing admin portal styling.

Continue using:

server/public/admin/admin.css

and the existing shell/page structure.

Do not introduce a new design language.

The map page should feel like a natural extension of the current admin portal, not a separate product.

Existing Map Infrastructure to Reuse

The following already exists and should be reused rather than rebuilt:

server/public/leaflet-map.html

current Leaflet iframe communication pattern

window.postMessage bridge

existing layer loading logic

existing GeoJSON rendering logic

existing asset click → viewAssetDetail message flow

existing community bounds / fitBounds behavior

existing task marker rendering support

existing request pin support

existing browser geolocation support

This slice is about building the web page and panel system around the map, not replacing the map engine.

Roles Included in This Slice

Build map experience for:

Contractor

HOA Admin

HOA Member

Property Manager

Do not redesign the Super Admin map page in this slice unless required for shared reuse.

Map Page Routes

Add or finalize routes for:

/web/contractor/map
/web/hoa/map
/web/pm/map

All routes must use the existing SPA router pattern.

Map Page Purpose by Role
Contractor

Map is an operational tool.

Used to:

find assets

locate irrigation components

view request locations

open asset details

understand property layout

HOA Admin / HOA Member

Map is a visual understanding and oversight tool.

Used to:

explore the community

view assets by layer

understand where work applies

open work history tied to assets

Property Manager

Map is an oversight and property intelligence tool.

Used to:

inspect infrastructure

review assets

understand work context

open asset details and history

Default Map Behavior

When the map page opens, it must always start on the Community map.

Do not restore the user’s last map category.

Do not default to irrigation, snow, or trees.

This is intentional and must remain consistent.

Reason:
The repeatable path makes the system easier to learn and gives users a stable spatial starting point.

Default state:

Category = Community

Community map should be the first visible context every time.

Shared Map Workspace Layout

The web map page should use a three-part workspace layout:

Layers Panel | Map Canvas | Detail Panel

This is a core desktop advantage over mobile and should be the primary web map experience.

Layout Requirements
Left Panel — Layers Panel

Contains category and sublayer controls.

Center — Map Canvas

Embeds the existing leaflet-map.html in an iframe.

Right Panel — Detail Panel

Displays the selected asset details.

All three should be visible together on desktop if screen width allows.

The page should still degrade reasonably on smaller widths, but desktop is the priority.

Community Page Header

Reuse the shared community page header pattern established in Slice 2.

Example:

Map
Preserve Metro District

This must appear above the map workspace so users always know which community they are viewing.

Layers Panel

Create a reusable layers panel for the map page.

The panel should support:

category selection

grouped sublayer toggles

active state indication

Category Structure

Use these top-level categories:

Community
Irrigation
Snow
Trees

Do not flatten everything into one long list.

Categories should behave like clear grouped sections.

Community Category Sublayers
Bluegrass Areas
Native Areas
Landscape Beds
Pet Stations

If community outline is separately represented in the map system, it should remain visible as the orientation layer.

Community context should always be visually clear.

Irrigation Category Sublayers
Backflow
Controller
Zone
Master Valve
Flow Meter
QC/ISO Valve

Do not include runtime in the details view for irrigation assets.

Snow Category Sublayers
Plow
ATV
Hand Shovel
Ice Melt
Slicer
Storage Area
Trees Category Sublayers
Tree
Layer UI Behavior

The layers panel should support:

selecting a category

toggling sublayers on/off

active sublayer styling

sending visible layer ids to the iframe map

Use the existing message bridge to control map visibility.

No new map engine should be created.

Map Iframe Integration

Embed the existing Leaflet map as an iframe.

The page should communicate with it via:

iframe.contentWindow.postMessage(...)
window.addEventListener('message', ...)

Reuse the existing bridge pattern.

Required behaviors:

load active community bounds

fit to community on load

send visible layer ids

handle asset click events

handle request / feature tap events if already supported

Asset Selection Behavior

When a map feature is clicked, the iframe should send the existing asset detail event back to the page.

The page should then open/update the Detail Panel.

This should use the existing featureRef-based asset resolution flow.

Do not replace this architecture.

Detail Panel

The right-side detail panel is a critical part of the web map experience.

This panel should remain visible alongside the map when an asset is selected.

It should support tabs.

Detail Panel Tabs

Use these tabs:

Details
Work History
Contractor Notes
Photos

These tabs are the official VRTSync map detail structure for web.

Details Tab

Show asset details based on the selected asset.

Examples by type:

Tree

species

date planted

warranty

location

Controller

location

brand

date installed

seasonal adjustment percent if available in asset properties

Zone

controller

zone number

zone type

location

brand

date installed

number of heads

Backflow

location

brand

serial number

size

date installed

Landscape / Community assets

show available asset properties cleanly using the current metadata structure

Do not invent fields not present in the system.

Work History Tab

This tab should display the selected asset’s work history.

For this slice, the goal is to establish the panel and loading structure.

If full invoice-backed history is not yet ready for all roles, it is acceptable to render:

placeholder structure

partial live records

or “No work history available yet”

But the tab and rendering path must exist.

Important role rule:

Contractors may see work history details, but not invoice financial details.

Contractor Notes Tab

This tab should display contractor notes tied to the asset.

For this slice, read-only rendering is acceptable unless adding note creation is already easy.

Goal:

establish the tab

display notes if available

reserve the correct place in the experience

This is especially important for contractor workflows.

Photos Tab

This tab should display photos tied to the asset history.

For this slice, a placeholder or empty-state implementation is acceptable if full photo retrieval is not yet wired for map detail context.

But the tab must exist.

Role Behavior on Map Page
Contractor

Map is fully usable as an operational tool.

Should see:

layers panel

map

detail panel

work history tab

contractor notes tab

HOA Admin

Should see:

same map workspace

asset details

work history

photos

HOA Member

Same map experience as HOA Admin, but fully read-only.

Property Manager

Should see the same workspace with emphasis on:

map exploration

infrastructure inspection

work history visibility

Request / Operational Layers

The map system should remain architecturally open to operational layers like:

Request layer

Irrigation Repair layer

Landscape Enhancement layer

Do not fully implement these in this slice unless already easy.

But do not design the page in a way that prevents them.

The map workspace should be built so additional categories/sublayers can be added later.

Task Markers

If task marker rendering is already available in the shared map engine, preserve compatibility.

Do not make task markers the primary focus of this slice.

This slice is primarily about:

base layer interaction

asset detail flow

web map workspace

Task-specific map functionality can deepen later.

Community Selector Integration

The map page must respect the active community from PortalState.

If the user changes communities in the top bar:

update active community

reload map context

fit to the new community

refresh visible layers

clear selected asset state if necessary

Styling Requirements

Continue using the admin portal design language.

The following visual principles are required:

navy/teal palette

same border radii

same shadows

same card styling

same typography

same spacing logic

The layers panel and detail panel should feel like admin portal cards/panels, not a custom GIS product UI.

Empty / Initial States
Before asset selection

Detail panel should show a clean empty state such as:

Select a map item to view details
No data states

Each tab should render clean empty states if no records exist.

Out of Scope for Slice 4

Do NOT fully build the following yet unless already easy:

map-based task creation

full request map flow

asset editing

invoice creation from map

deep contractor note editing workflow

document linking in map panel

advanced filters

saved views

Those belong in future slices.

Deliverables

By the end of Slice 4, the system should support:

map page routes for contractor / HOA / PM

shared map workspace layout

category-based layers panel

iframe map integration

community-default map behavior

asset click → detail panel flow

detail panel tab structure

clean admin-styled map page UI

Success Criteria

The system should be able to:

open the map page inside each portal shell

load the active community context

fit the map to the community

default to the Community map category

toggle visible sublayers

click a feature and open the detail panel

switch between Details / Work History / Contractor Notes / Photos tabs

maintain admin portal visual styling across the experience

Important Reminder to Replit

The web map page is one of the most important parts of VRTSync.

Build it as a desktop workspace, not a stretched mobile screen.

But visually it must still feel like the same product as the admin portal.

Reuse the existing map engine. Reuse the existing design system. Reuse the existing shell.

Do not rebuild the map system from scratch.